cool
this is going to be a very short talk
it's basically going to be me dragging a
highlighter over certain parts of what
one just said aetherium on IP FS so yeah
we got kind of dug around inside the
internals of ipfs and I peeled e and how
all that works and so how can we take an
application that wasn't built to work on
ipfs and and sort of map it onto ipfs
and see that that actually works pretty
well so yeah if you're M loves ipfs
we're hoping to have these stickers for
you but they never showed up so what's
up watching it's it's a combination of a
couple things one you have a
peer-to-peer network you have a
consensus algorithm you have some
historical log and you have which is
which an aggregate gives you the the
current state and both the historical
log in the current state there they're
hash linked data so you've seen some
graphs already it looks a bit like this
so ipfs is a peer-to-peer network that
serves hash linked data and so ipfs or
aetherium on IP of s it's a peer-to-peer
network where you get your hash link
data for the state in the history and
then you just layer your consensus
algorithm on top for you to resolve
what's the current head where it's the
current state so i've been talked very
briefly on IP LD resolvers and then
you're going to get more of a deep dive
in the next talk so this is my possibly
fictitious history of ipfs and and
looking up data on ipfs first you look
it up by a by a hash and you get data
and they're like well it makes more
sense to be able to use any kind of hash
to look up your data and then using any
kind of hash to look up any kind of data
format so then the resolvers when we
specify the format we can use these
resolvers to look inside that data we're
getting some binary data blob and you
can you can pull out some specific
information or you can pick out a link
to to something else and we can use
human readable names so if you have your
your
identifier for your Assyrian bloc you
could grab the the number of that block
or the the minor the validator that
created that block and and then you can
keep going you can say like I want to
look at inside the state this sort of
snapshot of the state at that block and
I'm going to look inside an address and
I want to get the balance of the user at
that and or you could look inside if
it's a smart contract at that address
you can dig into that smart contract and
get some some value inside its storage
at some key and so while we had to build
an aetherium specific IP LD resolver
when you when you look up that data it
will auto-generate
a merkel proof that that value is
correct with and without the system
having to really understand any
semantics of etherium that this is a
smart contract and it has storage and
all that stuff we just used the IP LD to
to walk you through that those data
blobs to other data blocks so so that
was that was a you know reading static
data about the blockchain but that's
there's you know a lot more going on how
do you take actions in the network so
Lib PDP is part of the networking stack
used by IP FS and they have a feature
somewhere between development and
production called global pubsub and it
lets you basically globally subscribe to
topics on the network or publish on
those topics so utilizing that you as a
as a client you could just subscribe to
incoming blocks and every time there's a
the network and you knows about a new
block you get that new block and then
you can sign your transactions and
publish on that topic if there's a new
sign transaction as a validator as a
miner you'd thought you'd want to of
course you want to also know about new
hunk new blocks but you'd also want to
listen for those new sign transactions
that you'd want to put inside your block
the block that you're mining and then
you can publish the blocks that you've
mined on that topic
and then we can start experimenting with
other things you didn't talk about IP NS
too much but you can you know ipfs this
is all mutable or immutable links right
so they're all they're all static IP NS
lets you basically publish an updated
value at some at some name and that
updated value or that mutable value is
just pointing to another immutable
reference and then you could walk you
know walk down there as you need so you
could say what your as as appear on the
network you could say what your view
into the what the latest block is you
could just publish that on your identity
and others could if you for example had
a very resource constrained device that
you owned you could tell it to just
follow whatever you had published as the
latest or whatever the etherium
foundation had published or you know n
of em good actors and then you have a
very lightweight consensus sitting on
top of the like strong heavyweight
consensus of a blockchain but I mean
like if there have already works so so
why would you bother building all this
so one is you know IPF a sin and let PP
it's it's more general so I think you're
gonna have more people coming out of the
Woodworks to to contribute new new
pieces of technology that maybe use the
theorem consensus here and use maybe
state channels or to be part of that
peer to peer network is it's a much more
open invitation I feel where as messing
with aetherium protocols you might get
the cold shoulder a little bit hopefully
that's not true
binaries I find it to be open by
definition and so I think that will
encourage lots of people to play with it
but not only that we need it at meta
masks currently by default when you use
meta mask you yet you know you can
interact with aetherium in your web
browser and Frankie's gonna talk about
that later but you can see it's like
hopefully not bugging out right now so
it's up here in the corner and I didn't
use that to to interact with with
aetherium but the way we make that work
without you sitting there thinking for
minutes or hours or whatever it might be
is by default we rely on a trusted data
source and and so you still have you
still have trusted Jill T at any point
you can say no I want to I want to get
that data from my own node or or I'm
gonna spin something up in the cloud or
I'd rather move to this other data
provider you can do that any any time so
yeah so if we were to become bad actors
suddenly you could you could move off of
that very easily so that that's quite
valuable but it's still so we haven't
poured people and so our hands are tied
a little bit because we have no tcp/udp
in the browser to talk to the main
aetherium network so what are we gonna
do
perhaps we'll build a second network on
WebRTC via Lib p2p and using some bridge
nodes to help make the data accessible
and get transactions to the buyers
thanks
[Applause]